Courses - Information Technology University
 ITU FM 90.4
 ITU FM 90.4
Admissions Open
About
Short Courses 
SSPO
Graduates
Graduates - 2017
Graduates - 2018
Graduates - 2019
Graduates - 2020
Graduates - 2021
Jobs
QEC
ORIC
Advancement & External Linkages
Contact Us
 Menu
HOME
FACULTY
Administration
ADMISSIONS 
ADMISSIONS
Overview
Admissions Open
Norms & Criteria
Scholarships
Kamyab Jawan Program
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS 
UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS
BS Economics with Data Science
BS Computer Engineering
BS Computer Science
BS Electrical Engineering 
BS Management and Technology 
BS Software Engineering 
BS Artificial Intelligence 
GRADUATE PROGRAMS 
GRADUATE PROGRAMS
Executive MBA
MS Development Studies
MS Public Policy and Society
MS Management and Technology
MS Electrical Engineering
MS Computer Engineering
MS Computer Science
MS Data Science
PhD ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
PhD COMPUTER SCIENCE
Trainings & Short Courses
FAQs
ACADEMICS
NEWS 
NEWS
EVENTS AND HAPPENINGS
Press Clippings
RESEARCH
PhD EE Interviews of all qualified candidates will be held at ITU, 4th Floor conference room on Thursday, 11th August 2022 at 11am.
Courses
Home/Centre for Executive Trainings/Courses
Quick Links
Fee Structure
Trainers
Courses
Schedule
Deadline & Schedule
Application Process
Admission Calendar 2022-2023
FAQs
Apply Now
Short Courses & Certification Training
Python Programming with AI/ML
Details
About
This course summarizes machine learning models from an implementation perspective using python language. The course starts from the basics and advances to the more complex problems; hence anyone with a basic understanding of programming can attend this course.
Duration: 8 Weeks
Course Outline:
Modules
Lecture Number
Lecture Topics
Introduction to Python Programming
(4 Lectures approx.)
1
Machine Learning and Python Introduction
2
Python Basic Data Types and their Operations
3
Conditional Statements and Loops
4
Object Oriented Programming
Data Processing Libraries
(4 Lectures approx.)
5
Tabular Data Handling with Pandas
6
Data Visualization with MatplotLib
7
Numerical Data Manipulation with Numpy
8
Basic Image Processing with Numpy
Machine Learning with Sklearn
(5 Lectures approx.)
9
Explanation of Machine Learning Tasks
10
Implementation of Regression
11
Implementation of Classification
12
Implementation of Clustering
13
Implementation of Dimension Reduction
Deep Learning with Tensorflow
(3 Lectures approx.)
14
Explanation of Deep Learning Foundations
15
Implementation of Feed Forward Neural Networks
16
Implementation of Convolutional Neural Networks
Instructor Profile:
Dr. Raees Khan
PhD Computer Science (FAST-NUCES Islamabad)
Program Manager, Department of Computer Science (ITU)
Research Interests: Inter of Things (IoT), Cyber Security, Machine Learning
Python Programming for Young Wizards
Details
Audience
The course is designed for beginner level programmers and may not required any prior programming knowledge. Its better that the participants have a working knowledge of computer, files, internet and basic components of computer hardware.
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Topics covered
Topics Covered
Lecture 1
Introduction to Programming and algorithms. Introduction to Python
Lecture 2
Getting Started with Python development, text output, console etc. Syntax and variables
Lecture 3
Numbers, strings, casting, strings and operators
Lecture 4
Arrays, Lists, sets, tuples and dictionaries
Lecture 5
Control statements, if, if-else, while loop, for loop
Lecture 6
Functions, Lambda and recursion
Lecture 7
Classes and objects
Lecture 8
Modules and File handling
Lecture 9
Internet, sockets, Json or CSV parsing etc
Lecture 10
Introduction to Tkinter,  basic UI in Python
Instructor Name:
ᐧPlease click here to view instructor profile.
Web Development
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Course Outline
Module 1: HTML
Module 1: Web Programming Introduction
Module 2: HTML-Introduction
Module 3: HTML-Basic Formatting Tags
Module 4: HTML-Grouping Using Div Span
Module 5: HTML-Lists
Module 6: HTML-Images
Module 7: HTML-Hyperlink
Module 8: HTML-Table
Module 9: HTML-Iframe
Module 10: HTML-Form
Module 11: HTML-Headers
Module 12: HTML-Miscellaneous
Module 2: CSS
Module 1: CSS2-Introduction
Module 2: CSS2-Syntax
Module 3: CSS2-Selectors
Module 4: CSS2-Color Background Cursor
Module 5: CSS2-Text Fonts
Module 6: CSS2-Lists Tables
Module 7: CSS2-Box Model
Module 8: CSS2-Display Positioning
CSS Floats
Module 3:  JQuery/ JavaScript
Introduction
jQuery – Basics
jQuery – Selectors
How to use Selectors?
jQuery – DOM Attributes
jQuery – DOM Traversing
jQuery – CSS Methods
jQuery – DOM Manipulation Methods
jQuery – Effects
jQuery – AJAX
jQuery – JSON
Module 4: Bootstrap
Introduction to Bootstrap
Bootstrap Grid
Bootstrap Components
Bootstrap Plug-Ins
Module 5: Database
Introduction to Database Management System.
Server Installation
What is a Relational Database Management System?
Key Concepts in Relational Database Management System
Normalization Technique
What is SQL and getting started with MySQL
Types of commands in MYSQL
Filter records in MySQL
Operators in MYSQL
Pattern matching in MYSQL
Null values in MySQL
Database CRUD Operations
Module 6: Understanding of MVC
Laravel/yii2 framework installation
Basic Structure of Framework
CRUD Generation
Basic Concepts of MVC
Plugin installation
Authorization
Authentication
Web Application Development
Instructor Profile:
Saqib Ullah Khan is a Web Master at the Information Technology University (ITU). He holds a BS(Hons) degree in Computer Science. He has previously worked as a Software Engineer at Crunch Press & Code Forest. Having a hands on experience of over 8 years of PHP, Databases, jQuery and CSS and various web application frameworks i.e Laravel, Yii, CodeIgniter and Content Management Systems such as WordPress, Magento 1 & 2.0.
Freelancing Plus Additional Skill
Details
Increasing number of people, especially students, are embarking on a new journey everyday through freelancing. It is helping them learn new skills and earn through an additional income stream. No matter if you are doing a full time stressful job or you are looking for one, freelancing gives you freedom to learn and earn from anywhere. Make the best of this opportunity and learn from one of the most experienced mentors.
This course is especially designed for those people who love work-from-home and want to be their own boss. It covers World’s top Freelance websites in detail to teach you how you can make money online with no skill or prior experience. The Freelance websites which will be covered in this course include:
Fiverr.com
Freelancer.com
WordPress Development
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Course Outline
Module 1: Introduction
What is Freelancing?
Why Freelancing?
Types of Freelance Marketplaces
Ways of Freelancing
How much time you need to get started
Pros & Cons of Freelancing
How to select your skill?
Types of skills required for a freelancer
Module 2: What Sets you apart as a Freelancer?
Presenting your work
Communication Skills
Defining Projects Deliverables
Professional Behavior
How to set high hourly rates in Freelance Profile?
Module 3:  Mistakes & Problems every Freelancer face
Which project should I take?
Pricing Yourself
Time Management for Freelancers
Setting project scope in the beginning
Freelancing Behavior
Lack of client’s response
Freelance Portfolio & Profile mistakes & Examples of great portfolios
Module 4:  Freelance Job Hunting Skills 
Writing Job Application
Freelance Job selection
Bidding on the right project
Identifying Fake Projects
When to put a premium bid?
Writing effective proposals
Module 5:  Find work on Fiverr.com
Sign up and create a Profile on Fiverr
Main tips of creating a Perfect profile
GIG understanding & overview
The importance of Keywords
Feedback and Client Reviews for Profile
How to promote your Gig?
The important of multiple Gigs
Funds withdrawal method (Payoneer)
Fiver Disputes
Module 6:  Find work on Freelancer.com
Sign up and create a Profile on Freelancer
Best time to create profile
Bidding on projects
Bid types and requesting Milestone’s payment
Payment integration
Withdrawal methods (Skrill & Express)
Module 7:  Outsourcing
What is outsourcing?
When to think about outsourcing?
Using software to keep the check on progress
Payment Milestones
Module 8: Additional Skill: WordPress Development 
How to Make a WordPress Website: Step-by-Step Guide for Beginners
Instructor Profile:
Mr. Salman Javed has done graduation in Computer Science. Currently, he is working as a System Engineer at Information Technology University. His professional experience spans over more than 5 years. He has been providing online services as a freelancer to many small and large businesses on Fiverr and Freelancer.
Based on his vast experience, he has designed a short course on Freelancing in order to share his experience and equip the students to achieve their goals through learning and earning.
Students may learn the latest techniques and future trends of freelancing through this course and apply them to launch or further enhance their freelancing career.
MS Office (Excel & Word)
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Course Outline:
Introduction to Microsoft Excel:
Introduction, practical use and basic components of Microsoft Excel.
Open a new, blank workbook.
Base a new workbook on an existing workbook and on a template.
Create and edit your own templates.
What is the office backstage view and what can you do with it?
Preview worksheets before printing.
Printing worksheets and workbooks.
Formatting data:
How to enter, format, edit and view data.
Copy and moving data.
How to change the format of numbers?
How to apply Conditional formatting.
How to select, navigate and manage worksheets.
How to add supporting comments in cells.
Managing data and workbooks:
Introduction to managing data.
Importing/Exporting data from/to a text file.
Overview of text import wizard.
Usage of charts and steps for drawing up charts.
Types, elements and modification of charts.
How to find, edit and refresh existing data connections.
Exchanging or exporting data with different data sources and from excel to word.
Introduction to Microsoft Word:
Introduction and practical use of Microsoft word.
Creating and saving a document.
Page numbers, headers and footers.
Page breaks and section breaks.
Page setup.
Office backstage view of Microsoft word.
Printing a document.
Formatting, Illustrations and Tables:
Formatting includes styles, fonts, paragraph settings and sorting lists alphabetically.
Illustrations includes pictures & clip art, Shapes, Charts, Text boxes, Wordart.
Creation, editing and deletion of table.
Instructor Name:
Mr. Israr Ahmad
Israr ahmad is an accountant at Information technology university of the Punjab. He has more than 7 years of experience of using microsoft excel and microsoft word at different corporate levels. Israr ahmad holds a master’s degree (M.COM) in accounting & finance from university of central Punjab. After this, he completed his certificate named Assessment of fundamental competencies from ICAP, formerly known as CA foundation. In addition, he has worked as freelancer and completed more than 200 projects related to financial analysis, microsoft excel and business plans. His primary goal is to provide a positive and respectful learning environment where he can guide individuals to develop a new skill set, embrace challenges and go beyond their own expectations.
Graphic Designing
Course Details
This graphic design course is developed for students, hobbyists and aspiring designers with little to absolutely no design experience. Keeping this in mind, the course will provide you with foundations for creating apps that stand out. You will explore key UI and UX concepts that are fundamental to smooth, no fuss, creative apps that are loved by users.
The course has a secondary component that focuses on practical, hands on design workflow. From user flow diagrams to wire-framing to mockups and prototypes, you will explore all components to a successful app design.
This graphic design course is developed for students, hobbyists and aspiring designers with little to absolutely no design experience. Keeping this in mind, the course will provide you with foundations for creating apps that stand out. You will explore key UI and UX concepts that are fundamental to smooth, no fuss, creative apps that are loved by users.
The course has a secondary component that focuses on practical, hands on design workflow. From user flow diagrams to wire-framing to mockups and prototypes, you will explore all components to a successful app design.
Some of the components that this course will touch upon are:
Typography
Colour Theory
UI/UX design for mobiles
Actual design workflow
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Instructor Profile:
Mujtaba Sajid Tirmizi
Digital Media Marketing
Details
This Training course aims to provide the exceptional opportunity to learn complete SEO life cycle
including effective Keywords Research, Latest On-Page SEO Techniques, Creative Web Creative Writing
and other dimensions of Digital Marketing. The course will also include the in-depth knowledge of
Google Trends, Google Adwords, Google Analytics, and Google Webmasters Tools. We will also cover
how we can effectively use various Social Media platforms to promote the online presence of a website.
This training course will be comprised of 10 interactive sessions of absolute learning, hands-on
assignments, quizzes, and much more. This is an assignment based training course.
E-commerce (Amazon)
Course Outline
WEEK 01
What is E-COMMERCE / Why E-commerce / Types of E-Commerce Models ( ASSIGNMENT WISE AND PAYONEER ACCOUNT REQUIREMENT
Why Amazon? ( ASSIGNMENT AMAZON SELLER ACCOUNT SIGN UP REQUIREMENTS)
WEEK 02
REQUIREMENTS FOR FBA WHOLESALE
Types of Companies in USA and in UK and TYPES OF TAXES
WEEK 03
AMAZON FULLFILLMENT METHOD & Fees and Amazon Models
AMAZON MARKET PLACES & BUYER DASHBOARD and Hunting Criteria Assignment 1 (10 products of wholesale with multiple seller)
WEEK 04
Assignment 2 (Product Hunting Criteria)
Assignment 3 (Products that are not allowed and Gated And Ungated )
WEEK 05
Assignment 5 (Reviews, Ratings, Price)
Assignment 6 (TOOL OS ADD AND KEEPA)
WEEK 06
Assignment 7 (TOOLS, SALES OUR EQUITY)
Assignment 8 (Product weight and Brand details)
WEEK 07
Assignment 9 ( Brand Details )
Assignment 10 (BUY BOX & VINE DEALS )
Assignment 11  (HOW TO CALCULATE COST , LOSS AND PROFIT FOR USA  & UK)
WEEK 08
WHERE AND HOW TO HUNT THE CLIENTS
HOW TO COMMUNICATE WITH CLIENTS
HOW TO COMMUNICATE WITH BRANDS( BY EMAILS & PHONE CALLS)
HOW TO FIND BRANDS FROM SELLERS ID (SPY ON STORE)
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Instructor Name:
FARIS AND HAMMAD
Filmmaking - (Photography, Videography & Editing)
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Details
The Certificate in Practical Filmmaking course is intended for individuals with almost no filmmaking background and offers understudies a chance to work through a full generation cycle on a short film-from content advancement through to after creation. The course focuses on the study of four essential components of filmmaking: writing, directing,
cinematography, and editing. To apply the ideas they learn in class, students write, produce, direct, and edit a short film exercises, using HD cameras, lighting packages, and advanced editing software. Practical workshops and training exercises provide a well-balanced prologue to the technical the craft of filmmaking and the art of visual storytelling.
Instructor Profile:
Working in Pakistani media for more than 15 years, Bilal is best acknowledged as Director. He has worked with some distinguished production houses and TV channels. Having a professional degree in filmmaking Bilal started his career with CINETEL PRODUCTIONS in 2004. He has worked with PRODUCTION UNDERGROUND from 2005 to 2009 and then joined APLUS ENTERTAINMENT as Senior Director in 2009 and was one of the pioneers. He has also worked with A&B ENTERTAINMENT and ZEEKAY FILMS as Drama Director. He has produced and directed several Musical shows, Reality Shows, Talk Shows, Telefilms, Drama Serials, Sitcoms, Documentaries, TV Commercials and Music Videos for different TV channels and clients. He has also worked with GEO TV and directed the flagship show “Hum Sab Umeed Se Hain”. He also worked as an Associate Director in Pakistani film Manto. Bilal has won several awards on different platforms including Lux Style Award for the best play Nautankee. He is also known as Director of Photography and Editor in the media industry. Currently, Bilal is working with ITU and heading the media team.
AutoCAD: Basic to Pro
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Introduction to Course
AutoCAD is an emerging field that combines creativity with technical skills. This course will help a trainee to acquire basic introduction of Computer Aided Design (CAD). This course will help you to learn this software step by step from beginner to professional level. The goal is to develop planning and designing skills starting with the fundamental theory and practice of AutoCAD and quickly advancing to draw basic drawing sets.
This course puts you on the track of accomplishment by providing complete instructions on how to start your AutoCAD career as a freelancer and get the best AutoCAD jobs. The trainees can make a career in architectural & engineering design through this course.
Course Outline
Module 1: Introduction of AutoCAD
Exploring the Interface: Ribbon, Panels, Model space, Layout tabs, Status bar, & Properties.
Picking Points in the Drawing Area
Opening an Existing File
Saving a File as You Work
Working with Multiple Files
Understand AutoCAD setup tips, Options, Units, Workspace
Understand basic drawing tools
Module 2: Use of Commands
Understand Layers – Name, Line type, Thickness, & Color
Draw centre lines – Object snap, Line, Move, & Offest
Draw exterior/interior walls, floor, millwork & openings – Polyline, Spline, Circle, Rectangle, Object Snap, Mirror, Fillet, Trim, Extend, Array, & Match Properties
Assignment: Using different commands draw any Object to explore your creativity.
Module 3:  Master Intermediate Skills
Dim, & Dimension style
Add/Edit blocks from AutoCAD Tool Palette & Other sources – Door, Window, Column, Plumbing, Furniture & Equipment
Create custom blocks – Custom furniture
Assignment: Make Sofa set furniture block
Module 4:  Concept of Architecture drawings 
Type of Drawings: Brief Introduction
Examples of different live projects
How to draw a plan from basic information?
Assignment: Search different types of drawings produced in AutoCAD and present in front class.
Module 5:  Draw an elevation and section from the floor plan
Add/Edit Text & Annotation (in model space-annotative) – M Text, Text Style, M leader, and Multileader Style
Using of blocks and furniture in drawings.
Use of Hatch
All details use in Architectural drawing set
Assignment: Draw a 2D Plan.
Module 6:  Set Sheets 
Understand Model space and Paper space
Set a new layout – Page layout and plot styles
Set views in Paper space – Defpoints, scaling
Add/Edit/Draw a title block
Add/Edit symbols in Paper spaces – drawing title, elevation symbol and section letters, north arrow
Printing
Assignment: Draw a Basic Elevation. 
Module 7:   Introduction of Submission Drawing 
Review of submission drawing
Examples of submission drawing
Assignment: Final Project
Module 8:   3D Modeling and Imaging
Creating 3D Drawings
Using Advanced 3D Features
Editing and Visualizing 3D Solid
Instructor Name:
Rabia Muhammad Mansha 
Instructor Profile:
Rabia Muhammad Mansha is an Architectural Engineer. She has Six years of industrial experience in the construction, building design, management and architecture field. She also has three years of teaching experience as a Lecturer at COMSATS University of Information & Technology, Lahore. Currently she is working as Project Engineer in a UK based multinational Architectural Firm.
She has done BSc Architectural Engineering from University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore and Masters of Architecture from University of the Punjab in Architectural Design.
 Cloud Computing - AWS Solution Architect 
Details
Cloud computing is a highly sought-after skill due to its flexibility, scalability, and cost-effectiveness. It eliminates the need for expensive hardware and infrastructure investments and allows businesses to focus on their core competencies. With the integration of new technologies such as machine learning, artificial intelligence, and IoT, cloud computing is poised to become even more important in the coming years. Amazon Web Services (AWS) leads the pack with the largest market share, presenting a unique opportunity for individuals looking to pursue a career in cloud computing. Mastering AWS through this comprehensive course can position individuals to take advantage of the growing demand for cloud computing expertise
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Course Outline:
Section 1: Fundamentals of AWS Cloud Computing
Introduction to Cloud Computing
Cloud Environment Architecture
Cloud Computing Models 
Introduction to Amazon Web Services
AWS Global Infrastructure
Section 2: Elastic Compute Cloud
Launching our first EC2 instance
EC2 instance types & Pricing Models
Creating AMI and Image Templates 
Understanding Security Groups – a Server side Firewall
Section 3: Virtual Private Cloud
VPC & Subnets 
Private and Public Subnets
Internet Gateways, VPC Peering & NAT Gateways
VPN Setup 
IP Addressing in AWS
Section 4: Elastic Block Storage
Introduction to Block & Object storage mechanism 
Introduction to Elastic Block Store – EBS 
EBS Snapshots 
EBS Volume Types
Instance Store Volumes
Section 5: Simple Storage Service
Introduction to Simple Storage Service (S3) 
Features of S3 
Storage Types 
Static Website Hosting
Versioning 
Life Cycle Policy
Cross Region Replication
Encryption
Section 6: Elastic File Storage
Introduction to EFS
Connect a drive via network
Share the drive among multiple servers
Section 7: Elastic Load Balancers and Auto Scaling
Understanding High Availability Configuration 
ELB Configuration with Classic and Application Load Balancers
Auto Scaling
Section 8: Identity & Access Management
Understanding the IAM Policies
IAM User, IAM Policy and IAM Role
Section 9: Databases
Introduction to Relational Databases 
Creating our first database structure in MySQL
Getting started with Dynamo DB 
Know about Elastic ache, Redshift
Section 10: Decoupling Applications
Amazon SQS 
Amazon SNS 
Amazon SES 
Kinesis Overview
Section 11: Domain Name System 
Introduction to DNS 
Understanding DNS Records
Introduction to Route53 
Register a Domain using Route 53
Manage DNS Hosts
Section 12: AWS CloudFront
Introduction to CloudFront 
CloudFront with S3 
CloudFront Advanced Concepts
Section 13: AWS ECS
Getting Started with Containerization
ECS Services and Tasks 
Load Balancing in ECS 
ECS Scaling
Section 14: AWS CLI and SDK
Getting Started with AWS CLI 
AWS CLI setup on EC2 instances
Connect EC2 instance with other AWS services like S3 or SNS or SES 
Section 15: Serverless Computing
Serverless Introduction 
Lambda 
Setting up Server Auto Start with a Lambda Function
Elastic Beanstalk
Host a Sample PHP website using Elastic Beanstalk
Section 16: Monitoring
Understanding CloudWatch 
Setup Alarms for Matrix changes
Auditing AWS environment with CloudTrail
Schedule Event Rules using Target based services
Instructor Profile:
Mr. Zeeshan Ali is a network engineer at Information Technology University, with a Master’s degree in Computer Science. He has more than seven years of experience in the field of IT, including teaching various courses as a visiting faculty member at BNU. Throughout his seven-year tenure in IT, he has gained practical knowledge in computer networks, system administration, and cloud computing.
 Value Investing in Stock Market
Details
In Pakistan (according to a study conducted by IOSR journal Business Management) only 0.14% of population holds a capital market account. This course aims to remove some prevalent misconceptions regarding stock market. The PSX operates on certain financial rules and fundamentals. The objective of the course is to enable participants in becoming self-directed investors & increase financial literacy. This course will enable participants to practically analyze different investment options and chose the best.
Duration
06 weeks
Course Outline:
Week 1 
What are stocks? 
  Initial Public Offering (IPO) 
Listing on the Stock Exchange
Stock Market Dynamics
How investors make money: Capital Gain & Dividend? 
Trading vs. Investing
 How retail Investors can invest in stocks?
Week 2
Balance Sheet
Cash flow statement
Income statement
Week 3
 Fundamental Analysis
Understanding & Interpreting financial ratios
 What is Insider trading? 
 What is short selling? 
What is pump & dump? 
What is intrinsic value of shares? How to calculate intrinsic value? 
How effective is P/E ratio and ROA in valuing a company? 
Week 4
Macro-economic Analysis
Financial reports
News (Print, electronic media, etc.) 
Political factors
Socio-economic factors
Earning potential
Week 5
Sector specific Analysis of PSX
Week 6
How to operate the trading platform
    Low volume stock
    High Volume stock
    Upper limit
    Lower limit
Overview of the PSX website/Data portal
Instructor Profile:
Ahsan, a business graduate and an investor at PSX, brings 3 years of expertise in company valuations and a strong foundation in value investing. Committed to increasing financial literacy in Pakistan, he empowers participants to become selfdirected value investors. Ahsan’s dynamic training style integrates real-world examples, offering a concise and practical approach for navigating the complexities of the stock market.
Offering of Semester Courses as Short Courses 
The Academic Council in its 21st meeting approved to open courses offered in the regular degree programs to external candidates as short courses. These courses for the external candidates will be opened after the consent from the concerned faculty members and approval of the Dean. It was also agreed that the upper limit of 15 external candidates will be allowed to enroll in one regular semester course, and there will be no lower limit.
Cloud Computing (Google, AWS, Azure)
Details
SECTION1: INTRODUCTION TO CLOUD COMPUTING
A Short History
Client Server Computing Concepts
Challenges with Distributed Computing
Introduction to Cloud Computing
Why Cloud Computing?
Benefits of Cloud Computing
SECTION2: CLOUD COMPUTING DEPLOYMENT MODELS
Private Cloud
Public Cloud
Hybrid Cloud
SECTION3: CLOUD DELIVERY/SERVICE MODELS
Software as a Service (SaaS)
Platform as a Service(PaaS)
Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS)
SECTION4: LINUX BASICS
Linux basic Commands
Linux basic Administration
SECTION5: INTRODUCTION TO AWS SERVICES
Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud(EC2)
Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)
Elastic Block Storage (EBS)
Elastic Load Balancing (ELB)
Amazon Relational Database Service (RDS)
Amazon DynamoDB
Auto Scaling
Amazon ElastiCache
Identity and Access Management (IAM)
Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
loud Formation
Simple Email Services (SES)
Simple Queue Services (SQS)
Simple Notification Services (SNS)
Server less computing (Lambda)
Import/Export (Snowball)
Code Commit
Cloud Trail
Elastic Beanstack
Cloud Front
Route-53
Key Management Service (KMS)
SECTION6: INTRODUCTION TO AWS
Subscription to AWS
Introduction to the AWS Management Console
SECTION7: ELASTIC COMPUTE CLOUD (EC2) ESSENTIALS
Regions and Availability Zones – Choose the right Region
Amazon Machine Images (AMI)
Working with AMIs
Choosing the right AMI
Deciding what goes into an AMI
Finding the right AMI
Pricing model in EC2 instances
On-demand, Reserved, Scheduled, Spot instances, Dedicated Hosts
EC2 Reserved Instance Marketplace
Importing and Exporting Instances
SECTION8: EC2 INSTANCES
Building an EC2 Windows instance & Linux Instance
Bootstrapping with user-data
Setting up security
Security with Key Pairs
Working with the Security Group
Different IPs assigned to an EC2 instance
Assigning Elastic IPs
Login/Access to the instance
Creating your own custom AMI, Registering & Granting access to the AMI
Placement groups
EC2 instance protection
Instance Roles
Importing and Exporting Instances
Elastic Network Interfaces(ENIs)
Resources and Tags
Accessing Meta-Data & use cases.
SECTION9: ELASTIC BLOCK STORE (EBS)
Elastic Block Store (EBS)
EBS Volume Types
EBS Encryption
EBS Performance
Instance Store volumes
Instance Stores Available on Instance Types
Instance Store Usage Scenarios
Adding Instance Store Volumes to an AMI
Optimizing Disk Performance
Creating and deleting volumes
Attaching and detaching volumes
Mounting and Unmounting the attached volume
Increasing the volume size
Creating snapshots
Creating Volumes & AMIs from Snapshots.
Cross-Region snapshot copy & use cases.
SECTION10: ELASTIC LOAD BALANCER (ELB)
What Is Elastic Load Balancing
How Elastic Load Balancing Works
Classic & App ELB types.
Creating load balancer
Internal & External Load balancers
Load balancing protocols
Listener Configurations
SSL Negotiation Configurations
Attach & Detach Subnets
Security groups for the load balancer
Configure health check for the load balancer
Adding multiple instances to the load balancer
Custom Domain Names
Cross-Zone Load Balancing
DNS Failover
Sticky Sessions
Monitoring and Logging
DNS Failover
Sticky Sessions
Monitoring and Logging
Cross-zone load balancing
Connection Draining
ELB traffic logging
SECTION11: AUTO SCALING
What is auto scaling
Auto scaling components
Benefits of auto scaling
Creating launch configuration, and its prerequisites.
Creating Auto Scaling Groups (ASG)
Attach & Detach EC2 Instances in ASG
Configuration of auto scaling policies based on the Load on EC2 instances.
Using Auto scaling with Elastic Load balancer (ELB).
Temporarily Removing Instances
Suspend and Resume Process
Shut Down Your Auto Scaling Process
Monitoring Your Auto Scaling Instances
Health Checks
Getting Notifications When Your Auto Scaling Group Changes
SECTION12: SIMPLE STORAGE SERVICE (S3)
Creating and deleting buckets
Adding objects to buckets
Getting objects
Deleting objects
Notifications
Uses of S3 storage
Working with Permissions of S3, Access Control, Bucket policy
S3 Data encryption types
Enable Versioning, Logging for S3 objects
Lifecycle rules in s3
Accessing S3 storage with Tools
Hosting a Static Website
Cross-Origin Resource Sharing
Cross-region replication
SECTION13: IDENTITY AND ACCESS MANAGEMENT (IAM)
Creation of user accounts
Setting up multi factor Authentication (MFA)
Roles in IAM
Groups in IAM
Delegation of permissions for users
Creation of custom policies for delegation
Using Identity Providers
Cross-Account Access
Account settings
Credential Report
Encryption – Key Management Service (KMS)
SECTION14: ROUTE 53
Configuring Amazon Route 53 as Your DNS Service
Registering a Domain Name and Configuring Amazon Route 53 as the DNS Service
Migrating DNS Service for an Existing Domain to Amazon Route 53
Creating a Subdomain That Uses Amazon Route 53 without Migrating the Parent Domain
Working with Public Hosted Zones
Working with Private Hosted Zones
Working with Resource Record Sets
Health Checks and DNS Failover
Creating, Updating, and Deleting Health Checks
Transferring a Domain from a Different AWS Account or Registrar
Using IAM to Control Access to Amazon Route 53 Resources
SECTION15: CLOUD WATCH
Debugging cloud related issues
Monitoring the AWS Service Health Dashboard
Monitoring with Cloud watch
Getting statistics for a specific EC2 instance
Getting aggregated statistics
Metrics for other AWS Services and related namespaces
Setting up notifications
SECTION16: SIMPLE NOTIFICATION SERVICES (SNS)
Creation of a topic
Subscribing to topic via Email
Setting notification for EC2 instance changes
SECTION17: SIMPLE QUEUE SERVICE (SQS)
Creation of a queue
Sending messages to the queue
Sending SNS to SQS
Retrieving messages from SQS
SECTION18: SIMPLE EMAIL SERVICES (SES)
Setting up email domain
Limits of SES
Test Email setup
SECTION19: RELATIONAL DATABASE SERVICE (RDS)
DB Instances
Selecting the DB-Engine
Configuring the Database Server
Creating your Database
Setting up automatic backups, snapshots & restores
Authorizing access to the DB with RDS Security Groups
DB Instance Replication
Security: Using IAM to Manage Access to Amazon RDS Resources
RDS Limits
Managing MySql Database server
DB Instance Life Cycle: Renaming a DB Instance
Deleting or Rebooting a DB Instance
Working with Storage Types
Upgrading a DB Instance
Working with Option Groups & DB Parameter Groups
Working with Reserved DB Instances
Monitoring
Database Log Files
SECTION20: CLOUD FRONT
How CloudFront Delivers Content
Working with Distributions
Working with Web Distributions
Working with Objects
Request and Response Behaviour
Serving Private Content through CloudFront
Using an HTTPS Connection to Access Your Objects
Using IAM to Control Access to CloudFront Resources
Monitoring CloudFront Activity Using CloudWatch
SECTION21: USE CASES
Cloud Architecture Best Practices
Cost Optimization
Security Considerations
Cost Calculation
AWS CLI & use case to check instance, ELB, EBS states
Building a simple web application in the AWS cloud
Each section will take around 2-3 hours.
Instructor Profile:
Ali Zain
Chief Executive Officer at Fireworks Technology / ProMaxWorld
Lahore, Pakistan
Summary
With great product and talented people, Fireworks Technologyis developing one of most advanced cloud based ERP and POSsystems. Our goal is to empower businesses with most advance techand gave people a complete control on their business.Entrepreneur. Founder & CEO of of multiple software products &services companies.Specialties: Business Product Development, Software Development,branding and e-commerce
Experience
Fireworks Technology
Founder
January 2017 – Present
Lahore, Pakistan
Fireworks Technology is a emerging technology services company thatspecializes in ERP, HRM, HelpDesk Management System, POS andinventory management integrated with AI and data mining providing businessintelligence reporting, – Founded the company in 2017.- Introduced cloud Based ERP and POS system in 2018
ProMaxWorld.com
CEO
May 2008 – Present
Lahore, Pakistan
ProMaxWorld.com is your personalized hub of supreme quality productsand services ranging from web designing, web development, e-commerce,branding, online marketing, web hosting and domain services, bespokesoftware development.
Page 1 of 2
Contrive Solutions
Project Manager
May 2015 – August 2016 (1 year 4 months)
Pakistan
Peak College, Lahore
Lab Manager
June 2008 – August 2008 (3 months)
Education
National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences
Bachelor of Science (BS), Computer Science · (2010 – 2014)
Trading Financial Markets
Course Outline
Details
Trading is a business. Its not passive income. But, its a job where: You have no employess, no boss, no customers, location independent, you get UNCAPPED &EXPONENTIALLY GROWING SALARY.
Worth it?
Everything you would need to educate yourself to become a profitable trader is covered in this short course. The yearning years of learning, experimenting and experiencing is all in the course outline. The course focuses on the study of technical analysis used by Institutions of the world in order to predict the market and profit from the move. Detailed technicals, intense homeworks and practices and live trading sessions are all part of the course.
Hopefully, after the course, the foundation will be strong to fast track the financial career into a fruitful trading profession!
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Instructor Profile:
Mohammad Ali Zaheer is a qualified ACCA professional, expert in financial analysis and financial management. He is a Certified Trading Analyst with an experience spanning to 7 years in the financial markets and mentored by 3 professional millionaire traders from Japan, Malaysia and Canada. He has also worked with several Trading firms, Fund management companies and prop traders in Malaysia, Canada, Singapore, USA and Netherlands.
Course Outline and Lecture Plan
SR#
Topic
1
Introduction to Financial Markets. Stocks, FX, Cryptos explained in detail and the volume traded daily.
How do financial markets operate? Electronic communication network, straight through processing. Buying side, selling side.
World trading sessions, time zones, time frames, major pairs, minor pairs, exotics.
Fundamental trading
Technical trading
Economic trading
The hierarchy and major players of the financial markets. (Banks, Investment Banks, Hedge funds, Institutions, retail traders)
Myths about financial markets. Spam or real?
Can you really make good wealth trading markets?
2
Introduction to the technical trading
Introduction to the platform MT4, MT5 and how to use it? Familiarize with the platform.
Types of traders and trading: Scalping, day trading, swing trading, and investment trading.
What are Japanese candlesticks?
Types of graphs.
What are the charts showing us?
How to use time frames with the platform?
Buying and selling.
Taking Profit (TP) and Stop Loss (SL)
Position sizing.
Leverage.
Risk Management.
Chart indicators, tools.
Understanding trading lingo.
3
What is a trading plan?
How can we trade everything based on the graph/chart interpretation?
What to include in your trading list?
Top down approach for the time frames. Monthly, weekly, daily, 4 hours, 1 hour, 30mins, 15 mins.
Understanding Japanese candlesticks. (lecture no.4 based on it with live practice and homework)
Trading levels of Support and resistance. (lecture no.5 based on it with live practice and homework)
Trading zones of Supply and Demand. (lecture no.6 based on it with live practice and homework)
Fibonacci Retracement levels. (lecture no.7 based on it with live practice and homework)
Fibonacci Expansion levels. (lecture no.8 based on it with live practice and homework)
Trend line Breakouts (lecture no.9 based on it with live practice and homework)
4
History of Japanese Candlesticks.
Reading Japanese candlesticks and their formations. High/low/open/close.
How to read and use candlesticks for the trading?
Major effecting candles.
Pinbars.
Doji’s
Engulfings
Morning star
Evening star
5
Basics of support and resistance
How to draw support resistance lines.
How to draw support resistance zones.
Understanding support and resistance breakouts and retests.
Determining a breakout.
Determining a retest.
Horizontal key chart levels.
Non-Horizontal Key Chart Levels.
Round-Number Key Chart Levels. (How the round number exchange rates affect the market sentiment)
6
What is a supply and demand?
How to draw supply and demand zones?
Understanding the 4 categories of Demand and supply.
Drop base Drop (DBD)
Drop base Rally(DBR)
Rally base Rally(RBR)
Rally base Drop(RBD)
Understanding supply and demand breakouts and retests.
Determining a breakout.
Determining a retest.
7
What is Fibonacci retracements/pullbacks?
How do we determine the retracement points?
What retracement levels to use?
Which levels are the most effective? 50/61.8/75/78.6/ 88.6
What are the secret/hidden retracement levels?
How to draw retracement confluences?
8
How to use and draw Fibonacci expansion?
The way to extend/maximize profitable trading moves and profits.
The major levels of Fibonacci expansion. 100/161.8/261.8.
How to confluence Fibonacci expansions.
9
Introduction to trendlines.
How to draw horizontal/vertical trendlines?
How to accurately define the pivotal points of the trendline?
Do trendlines actually work?
Number of trendlines.
Understanding trendlines breakouts and retests.
Introduction to Relative Strength index (RSI) and commodity channel index (CCI)
Forecasting the future price movement with accurately determining oscillators.
How to use RSI and CCI with levels.
Divergence trading to forecast future movement.
10
Understanding market structure and chart pattern.
Break-retest factors.
Determining a trend using Higher highs/Higher lows and Lower highs/Lower lows.
How to identify chart patterns.
Double bottom/top
Head and shoulders/Inverse head and shoulders.
Wedge pattern
Flag pattern
11
Combining everything together to form a trading plan.
How to use every tool explained in detail to form a plan.
Plan the trade then trade the plan.
How to scalp, day trade, swing using the formulated strategy with a plan.
Understanding the risk management and risk to reward ratio to garner higher percentage of profitable trades.
How to make 2%-5% a day using the techniques explained.
12
Market manipulation
How the big shots thrash out retail traders for their benefit.
Manipulative market movements.
Stop loss hunting.
How to align ourselves with the banks and hedge funds.
How to follow the big guns and not go against them.
Always following the trend.
The 95% failure ratio of the retail trading world.
How hedge funds crashed and regained their portfolio by managing risk.
13
Reality of crypto currencies.
How to trade crypto currencies the same way as any other instrument with a graph.
The myths about cryptos.
Trading cryptos rather than holding them.
Crypto exchanges and wallet and how blockchain is revolutionizing the crypto world and how ICO’S may be a major part of the market cap of the crypto’s.
Bitcoin and its realities and myths .
14
Question and answer session.
15
Summing it all up.
How to be a profitable trader.
Trading instead of gambling.
Identifying and treating financial markets as any other business and making a living out of it.
Breaking down the myths of traders being gamblers.
Not a get quick rich scheme.
Practicing the strategy with a demo tester.
The world of financial markets and its traders.
Conclusive remarks on the whole strategy.
Selling on Amazon from Pakistan(Amazon Virtual Assistant)
Details
TRAINING OBJECTIVES
This course will enable the pass outs to become familiar with Amazon as a Virtual Assistant.
In contrast to other short freelancing courses, this program is termed as Virtual Assistant for Amazon. Trainees will be learning the ways of being a Virtual Assistant for Amazon to take projects from customers and working from home as per customer’s requirement. The trainee will be able to deal with all the administration and customer support related to Amazon as well as able to find a product and launch in the Amazon.com marketplace.
Filmmaking - (Photography, Videography & Editing)
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Details
The Certificate in Practical Filmmaking course is intended for individuals with almost no filmmaking background and offers understudies a chance to work through a full generation cycle on a short film-from content advancement through to after creation. The course focuses on the study of four essential components of filmmaking: writing, directing,
cinematography, and editing. To apply the ideas they learn in class, students write, produce, direct, and edit a short film exercises, using HD cameras, lighting packages, and advanced editing software. Practical workshops and training exercises provide a well-balanced prologue to the technical the craft of filmmaking and the art of visual storytelling.
Instructor Profile:
Working in Pakistani media for more than 15 years, Bilal is best acknowledged as Director. He has worked with some distinguished production houses and TV channels. Having a professional degree in filmmaking Bilal started his career with CINETEL PRODUCTIONS in 2004. He has worked with PRODUCTION UNDERGROUND from 2005 to 2009 and then joined APLUS ENTERTAINMENT as Senior Director in 2009 and was one of the pioneers. He has also worked with A&B ENTERTAINMENT and ZEEKAY FILMS as Drama Director. He has produced and directed several Musical shows, Reality Shows, Talk Shows, Telefilms, Drama Serials, Sitcoms, Documentaries, TV Commercials and Music Videos for different TV channels and clients. He has also worked with GEO TV and directed the flagship show “Hum Sab Umeed Se Hain”. He also worked as an Associate Director in Pakistani film Manto. Bilal has won several awards on different platforms including Lux Style Award for the best play Nautankee. He is also known as Director of Photography and Editor in the media industry. Currently, Bilal is working with ITU and heading the media team.
Cyber Ops
Ethical Hacking
Details
This course covers the basics of hacking, operating system loopholes, trojans & backdoors, web application vulnerabilities, SQL injections, cryptography, viruses & worms and social engineering.
The course has been designed for an independent certification which the students can take on their own after completion of this course.
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Summary
Hands-on information technology manager/Project Manager, known for innovative approach to solving problems. Team leader experienced in building and motivating professional, capable, and responsive organizations. Polished and professional writer and presenter.
Effective in fostering collaboration and consultative relationships with senior management and across traditional boundaries; highlighting inflection points of technology decisions.
Technical leader with broad experience, brings focus on “big picture” business impacts of technology projects: real costs, practical benefits, risks and contingencies.
Adaptable – skilled at supporting individuals, building systems, handling problems; as well as managing teams, training, developing strategies, policies and processes.
Managing a Support Desk System
Self-directed & motivated person with strong technical skills of senior level
About 12 years of experience in maintaining successful CIA confidentiality, integrity, availability) of different networks.
Can identify and recommend improvements to the existing processes
Experience
Cisco Network Academy
RedHat Academy
Microsoft Academy
Oracle Academy in ITU and working as Master Trainer
Managing a lean team providing systems, network, end-user and technical support
Major individual contributor for ITU’s new campus erection, including enhancing data storage, disaster recovery capabilities, and security. Implemented systems/configuration management automation, planned and executed moves to new facilities. Responsible for data center design, office space networking, access control; HVAC, electrical and networking installation contractors
Led initiatives in virtualization, upgrading corporate LAN/WAN/Wireless networks, Email System Security, network monitoring, reducing business risk and increasing efficiencies. Negotiated several significant networking contracts, upgrading bandwidth, improving security and manageability of company networks.
Introduced new technologies and professionalized department, including processes to track problem resolution and manage software licensing and installation; promoted training and development of staff Utilized communication skills and deep technical knowledge to provide solutions for individuals and organizations; expanded competency in key areas through independent projects and presentations
Project areas included development and implementation of Asterisk on Linux (CentOS 7/Red Hat Enterprise Linux 7, Ubuntu), Unix (Solaris, AIX), Macintosh (OSX 10.X), Windows (Windows 10, Server 2012/2016, Monitoring (Solarwind Orion), Exchange Server 2012; licensing/acquisition issues), Amazon Web Services (cloud-based), VMware ESX/ESXi, MySQL, Oracle, NetApp, EMC Clariion, cfengine, LSF, SAS.
Email implementation (Postfix, DMARC, DKIM, Mailman)
Programming: bash, shell scripting/utilities, Perl, C.
Applications: Microsoft Office, OpenOffice; Adobe CC; Apache 2.2,
Network: TCP/IP (DNS, SMTP, ssh, HTTP, X11, BGP/WAN, 802.11, etc.), IPv6, Ethernet, Postfix, Juniper ScreenOS, Cisco IOS; VoIP (Asterisk 1.8, SIP telephony), PGP.
Secure VPN establishment with CISCO ASA with IPSec Designing and implementing security policy to protect internal network against unauthorized access.
Designing and implementing disaster recovery plan to prevent any data loss due to any hardware, software problem or in the event of any successful intrusion/attack.
Configuring and installing various network scanning tools i.e., Solarwinds Network Monitor, CISCO NIDS, Websense for safe web access etc.
Setting up and securing all network servers, including Domain Name Servers (NT DNS & Linux/Unix BIND), Email Servers (NT Exchange Server & Linux/Unix Sendmail, POSTFIX, Qmail, MDaemon) and WWW Servers (windows IIS & Linux Apache, Tomcat)
Conducting network security assessment and penetration testing of numerous clients using manual methods, commercial and open source software.
Education
MPhil Project Management (COMSATS) (in progress)
Masters in Computer Science (MCS)
(Specialization in Computer Networks)
Institute: University of the Punjab
Masters of Sciences (Chemistry, specialized in instrumentation)
Institute: University of the Punjab
Instructor Name:
Shoaib Bhatti
Introduction to Digital Journalism & Vloging TTS -Tips, Tricks & Strategies
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Introduction to Course
This course focuses on the principles and practices of digital journalism & vloging, enabling students to understand the ever-evolving landscape of modern news reporting and story telling. Students will learn to create compelling stories across various digital platforms, employing multimedia tools and engaging with online audiences.
Course Assessment and Final Project:
Assignments and quizzes throughout the course
A final project involving the creation of a multimedia journalism piece
Instructor Profile:
Khurram Jalil Rana is a Program Manager-Media at Information Technology University, With a master’s degree in Mass Communication and a professional career spanning over 14 years, Khurram Rana is an experienced media professional. His journey began in 2009 at THE NEWS International before transitioning into broadcast media with multiple roles as a Director and Producer. His impressive professional timeline includes working at ATV/A-News on various projects. He has produced several projects for GEO Entertainment and directed Morning Shows at Aplus Entertainment. As Programming Head at Channel Five he transformed the entire programing. He has also established multiple current affairs and entertainment digital channels. Khurram Rana has a diverse background in the media landscape. Currently, he is applying his expertise as Program Manager-Media at ITU Punjab, the country’s premier research university.
Public speaking and communication skills
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Course Outline
Public speaking is a leadership quality – it can lead to better job propositions, enhancing your quality of life. This course has been designed to teach public speaking and delivering a speech. Public speaking is a lifelong skill that is required for everyone to create an impact in schools, universities, workplaces, and even social gatherings. It helps you form connections with others, and helps in sales and marketing jobs too. The point is to change your circumstances, putting your points across, standing up for others, and knowing how to say what you need to say to create an impact.
Address your concerns to your audience effectively. Public speaking is a required skillset in today’s day and age. The art of persuasion is important in all our professional and personal relationships. It is important in building a network, storytelling and even entertaining people. This course will do that, while focusing on empathy in speech and public speaking.
Class breakdown:
Class 1:
Introduction of all participants + History of public speaking (Ancient Civilizations)
Class 2:
Art of Public Speaking + Speaking clearly
Act of Expression + Building confidence + Learning to put your ideas across
Class 3:
Understanding the needs of your audience.
Working on content and information to impart to an audience
Class 4:
Watching a few Ted talks – comparisons + class discussions
Homework – write a speech and deliver it in the next class.
Class 5:
Examples from movies – speech as a life-changing moment for characters
Class 6:
Organizing your speech – difference between spoken and written text
Class 7:
Developing confidence through your own idea
Class 8:
Communicating and making your speeches interactive. (Examples of stand-up comics).
Class 9:
Final Presentations : Speeches – comparing their performance from class 2 to class 10
Class 10:
Speaking in front of a camera – Art of performing a speech
Instructor Name:
Fatima Hassan
Creative Writing
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Course Outline
Class breakdown:
Class 1:
Building a Narrative
In this class we will learn how narration is an important part of a story, and what is required to write a winning story for publication. Narration is the most important part of a story, and it tells the audience what to expect from a storyteller. We will also discuss different genres and types of writing in this class.
Class 2:
Writing Perspective
It is important to know who your audience is, and one should always define their purpose before writing any piece of fiction. Some stories are worth telling, and others need to be tweaked to bring in more perspectives to make a story complete. We will talk about first-person, second-person and third-person narration in this class.
Class 3:
Writing about Object
For this class, the participants will have to bring any two or three objects with them. These objects can be anything that is important or holds any sentimental value. Talk about these objects in the class to give context to our participants, and then write a story based on some of the objects that you found most appealing in this class. You’ll be
surprised at how important an object can be in any story.
Class 4:
Character Building
In this class we will fill out character worksheets on our main character and talk about main characters from various movies and novels previously seen and read by the participants. We will look at the components that make a strong, relatable character who leaves an impact on the readers and viewers. Create your own characters whom you wish to write about.
Class 5:
Setting a Place
There are no limits to anyone’s imagination. The participants can choose any setting that exists in the world, and a place you are far too familiar with all the way to a conversation that takes place in a galaxy far far away. Here, we will talk about various ways a setting is important in setting the mood of a story, and even enhancing the plot in a story.
Class 6:
Plotting Away
The participants will be given worksheets to create a plot. We will look at the five act rule, and how it is imperative in telling a story. Plot is one of the most important feature in a story, and sometimes takes precedence over the main character if the plot is too strong. Everyone will be encouraged to talk about their progress up to this class
Class 7:
Dialogues
Everyone has their own way of talking. Sometimes shadow work works best. We will look at various stories where dialogues move the story forward, and the kind of dialogues that are used to depict fear, anger, happiness and every single human emotion possible.
Participants will be encouraged to bring their favorite dialogue scenes in movies and novels and present those to the class before writing it all down.
Class 8:
Peer review 1
We will all be reading each other’s work and giving constructive feedback, highlighting what we liked best in that short story. It is important to come having read each other’s work before this class.
Class 9:
Peer Review 2
Normally, two sessions are required to ensure everyone’s work is reviewed and given due importance.
Class 10:
Bringing it all together
We will bring together everyone’s stories and see the progress we have made in this course.
There will be readings given in each class by the course instructor. Every class has a 10 to 20 minute writing exercise which will have to be completed in the allotted time, as well as writing assignments to be handed in later.
Instructor Name:
Fatima Hassan
Search Engine Optimization 
Details
The aim of this SEO training course is to improve and enhance the technical knowledge of the students and the job seekers on the search engine optimization.
Introduction to Search Engine Optimization 
Introduction to SEO
Importance and Upcoming Trends of SEO
How Search Engines Work?
How Google works with your website
Life Cycle Of SEO
What Are Keywords?
Types of Keywords
Trends Monitoring and Rising Keywords as per your business/services category using Google Trends
Find out the keyword popularity according to region in Google Trends
Know the average monthly searches of your keyword(s) using Google Keyword Planner
Use Google Keyword Planner to extract related keywords
Criteria to finalize the list of keywords
ON-Page SEO 
How to write effective Title, Meta Description and Meta Keywords
CTR – Click Through Rate
Only being Top Ranked is not enough
Heading Tags
Why Content is KING?
Keyword Placement in Content
How the web content guidelines transform over the years?
Google Panda ( The Latest Creative Writing Guidelines)
Keyword density
keyword stuffing (Over Optimization)
HTML Tags, an SEO should know
Image optimization
Internal links
URL/Permalinks
The detailed discussion on User Experience and Navigation
Implementation Redirect 301
Why Robots.txt
Role of a sitemap and how to create
Anatomy of a SEO friendly Website
(Google Search Console AKA GOOGLE WEBMASTERS TOOLS)
Introduction To Google Webmasters Tools
Setting Up Google Search Console
Adding property to Search Console
Verification
Enable Email Notifications
Sitemap submission to Google
Search Appearance -> HTML Improvement (Google Bot findings about your web pages)
Search Traffic Report -> The most important report
Google Index ->Index Status
Crawl -> Fetch As Google
txt tester
Critical Messages about your website
OFF-Page SEO 
How to write effective Title, Meta Description and Meta Keywords
In Depth Discussion About OFF Page SEO
What Google says about backlinks?
How to get backlinks?
Link popularity
Detailed explanation of Google Penguin
How Google checks the “naturality” of the back links?
Linking building according to the guidelines of Google Penguin
Types and methods of link building
Do-follow VS no-follow links
Link Building Platforms
Google Analytics 
Introduction To Google Analytics
Setting up Google Analytics
Dashboard statistics
Real Time Reporting
Predefined Reports
How to create Custom Reports
Goals
Filters
Google Ads Linking With Google Analytics
Red hat Certified System Administrator (RHCSA)
Details
Understand and use essential tools
Installation of Red Hat Linux
Access a shell prompt and issue commands with correct syntax
Use input-output redirection (>, >>, |, 2>, etc.)
Use grep and regular expressions to analyze text
Access remote systems using SSH
Log in and switch users in multiuser targets
Archive, compress, unpack, and uncompress files using tar, star, gzip, and bzip2
Create and edit text files
Create, delete, copy, and move files and directories
Create hard and soft links
List, set, and change standard ugo/rwx permissions
Locate, read, and use system documentation including man, info, and files in /usr/share/doc
Operate running systems
Boot, reboot, and shut down a system normally
Boot systems into different targets manually
Interrupt the boot process in order to gain access to a system
Identify CPU/memory intensive processes and kill processes
Adjust process scheduling
Manage tuning profiles
Locate and interpret system log files and journals
Preserve system journals
Start, stop, and check the status of network services
Securely transfer files between systems
Configure local storage
List, create, delete partitions on MBR and GPT disks
Create and remove physical volumes
Assign physical volumes to volume groups
Create and delete logical volumes
Configure systems to mount file systems at boot by universally unique ID (UUID) or label
Add new partitions and logical volumes, and swap to a system non-destructively
Create and configure file systems
Create, mount, unmount, and use vfat, ext4, and xfs file systems
Mount and unmount network file systems using NFS
Extend existing logical volumes
Create and configure set-GID directories for collaboration
Configure disk compression
Manage layered storage
Diagnose and correct file permission problems
Deploy, configure, and maintain systems
Schedule tasks using at and cron
Start and stop services and configure services to start automatically at boot
Configure systems to boot into a specific target automatically
Configure time service clients
Install and update software packages from Red Hat Network, a remote repository, or from the local file system
Work with package module streams
Modify the system bootloader
Manage basic networking
Configure IPv4 and IPv6 addresses
Configure hostname resolution
Configure network services to start automatically at boot
Restrict network access using firewall-cmd/firewall
Manage users and groups
Create, delete, and modify local user accounts
Change passwords and adjust password aging for local user accounts
Create, delete, and modify local groups and group memberships
Configure superuser access
Manage security
Configure firewall settings using firewall-cmd/firewalld
Create and use file access control lists
Configure key-based authentication for SSH
Set enforcing and permissive modes for SELinux
List and identify SELinux file and process context
Restore default file contexts
Use boolean settings to modify system SELinux settings
Diagnose and address routine SELinux policy violations
Features
Enrollment in redhat portal
Certification discount upto 50%
Hands on experience on Linux
Requirements
PC or Laptop with internet Connection
Prerequisite 
Intermediate with basic computer knowledge
Mobile App Development(Android)
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Details
Lecture 1
Introduction to mobile application development. Limitations, challenges, advantages and design considerations for the mobile platform.
Introduction to Android studio, a hello world application
Lecture 2
Role of XML in Android apps, layouts, strings, manifest, menu and more
Working with multi-screen applications, Activities and their working
Menus, Buttons, Text Fields and other basic user interface elements on Android
Lecture 3
Android Intents and interaction between different applications.
Broadcasts and Broadcast receivers in Java and their applications
Lecture 4
Internet connected apps, connecting sockets, making web requests and staying connected, downloading photos and text, handling JSON
Background processing, threads and AsyncTasks in Android
Lecture 5
Android Services and their working, how to make Services talk to the Activities
Lecture 6
Design considerations, working with variety of screen sizes and resolutions
Signatures, signing apps for app store, basics of Google Play store and publishing, Analytics, Firebase , Ads etc
Lecture 7
Persistent Data Storage in Android, handling file system and more
Lecture 8
Working with Sensors like Accelerometer, Gyroscope, Light sensors, Temperature sensors etc in Android
Lecture 9
Handling Camera and pictures, an example app
Lecture 10
Handling GPS, location, google maps and making an example app using that.
Instructor Profile:
ᐧPlease click here to view instructor profile.
 Cloud Computing - AWS Solution Architect 
Details
Cloud computing is a highly sought-after skill due to its flexibility, scalability, and cost-effectiveness. It eliminates the need for expensive hardware and infrastructure investments and allows businesses to focus on their core competencies. With the integration of new technologies such as machine learning, artificial intelligence, and IoT, cloud computing is poised to become even more important in the coming years. Amazon Web Services (AWS) leads the pack with the largest market share, presenting a unique opportunity for individuals looking to pursue a career in cloud computing. Mastering AWS through this comprehensive course can position individuals to take advantage of the growing demand for cloud computing expertise
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Instructor Profile:
Mr. Zeeshan Ali is a network engineer at Information Technology University, with a Master’s degree in Computer Science. He has more than seven years of experience in the field of IT, including teaching various courses as a visiting faculty member at BNU. Throughout his seven-year tenure in IT, he has gained practical knowledge in computer networks, system administration, and cloud computing.
Amazon Wholesale FBA
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Details
Lecture 1
Introduction / What is Retail / Retail Supply Chain / Why Amazon? / Amazon Supply Chain
Importants Terms to Know / Overview of Amazon / Fulfilment Methods /Business Models
How Amazon Wholesale Business Works
Lecture 2
What is an Authorized Supplier ? / Most Important Things in Amazon Wholesale FBA Model
ROI & NEt Margin Calcultations / Business Structure / Useful Google Chrome Extensions
What is buy box ? / How to win the buy Box / Amazon Calculator
Lecture 3
Product hunting Keepa intro , product Hunting introduction
Lecture 4
Product Hunting Through Filters Criteria
Practical Class
Assignemnt
Lecture 5
Assignment Checking
Product Hunting By Seller ID’s
Product Hunting By Product Best Seller
Lecture 6
Revision & Practical Class
Product Hunting By Seller ID’s
Product Hunting By Product Best Seller
Lecture 7
Product Hunting By Brands Name
How to Use Category Tree and Hunt Products
Lecture 8
Revision & Practical Class
Product Hunting By Brands Name
How to Use Category Tree and Hunt Products
Lecture 9
How to Find Suppressed Listings by Keepa
How to Find Best Products in Variations of Products
Lecture 10
Revison & Practical Class
How to Find Suppressed Listings by Keepa
How to Find Best Products in Variations of Products
Lecture 11
Brand & Distributor Hunting
Website analysis of brands
– About us page
– how much products
– Big or small brand ?
Contact Us : / Email , phone no , website link / Product item # of brand
Lecture 12
Hubspot software – 12
Practice in class & assignment for next week to collect the leads of 200 brands
How to Make an account on Fiver & Create Gigs
Lecture 13
How to Communicate with Brand or distibutor through email?
Calling to brands or distributors / Email Scripts / Emails crosspondance
How to analysie Excel Sheets / Analysis of Excel sheets practical
Lecture 14
Seller Central overview
How to metoo product / Replanishment / Manage FBA Inventory / Inventory Planning
Price Management / Manage order / Payment reimbursment
Instructor Name:
Mr. Fahad Sultan Alvi
Amazon Virtual Assistant
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Instructor Name:
Mr. Fahad Sultan Alvi
Linux Administration
Duration
8 weeks
Instructor Name:
Mr. Zeeshan Ali
Supply Chain & Procurement
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Introduction to Course
This is an introduction to the fascinating world of Supply Chain Management. When you complete the program you’ll have a richer understanding of the complexities that companies are facing in today’s global networked economy. The course is for you, if:
you’re looking to start a career in Supply Chain Management, but lack the basic background;
you’re working with people in Supply Chain Management and want to understand their daily challenges better;
you’re fascinated by how the global economy is linked together by the flow of products, information, and finances.
The Supply Chain Management course is made up of four basic courses in logistics, operations, planning, and sourcing. The Supply Chain Logistics course will cover transportation, warehousing and inventory, and logistics network design. The Supply Chain Operations course covers techniques used to optimize flow and focuses specifically on Six Sigma quality and Lean practices. In the Supply Chain Planning course you’ll learn different forecasting approaches. The Supply Chain Sourcing course deals with different techniques that help you create lasting and productive supplier relationships.
This course will be accompanied with procurement knowledge and government sector departments practices in procurement which will be beneficial for your future Career practices in different semi government or government organizations or if you are dealing with government departments as supplier or manufacturer.
Course Content:
Week 1:
Introduction to Supply Chain Management, Why Supply Chain Management is important today
Week 2:
Components of supply Chain Management, Introduction to four basic pillars.
Week 3:
Supply chain planning, Importance and Implications.
Week 4:
Supply chain sourcing, Importance and Implications.
Week 5:
Supply chain operations, Importance and Implications.
Week 6:
Supply chain logistics, Importance and Implications.
Week 7:
Supply Market analysis and importance of supplier relationships.
Week 8:
Supply chain Optimization, Importance and Implication.
Week 9:
Procurement Rules and Government practices.
Instructor Name:
Hasan Mutahhar and Syed Ali Adnan Hamdani
Agile Project Management Using Scrum
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Introduction to Course
This interactive training is meant to polish the Agile skills of professionals. It will also prepare students to understand the Agile practices followed in the software industry and will help them to better enter the software market.
Course Content:
Lecture 1:
Introduction
Lecture 2:
An Overview of Agile & Scrum
Lecture 3:
Basic Concepts of Scrum
Lecture 4:
Daily Scrum / Daily Standup
Lecture 5:
Personas
Lecture 6:
User Stories
Lecture 7:
Definition of Done
Lecture 8:
The Scrum Team
Lecture 9:
Sprint Planning Meeting
Lecture 10:
Estimation
Lecture 11:
Scrum of Scrums
Lecture 12:
Information Radiators
Lecture 13:
Sprint Review & Demo
Lecture 14:
Retrospective Meeting
Instructor Name:
Sami uz Zafar 
Instructor Profile:
Sami uz Zafar graduated from Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS). He also did MS in IT from Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) with the “Highest Distinction” and won the “Award of Excellence”.
He has 20+ years of experience of software development, project management and delivering professional trainings. He has delivered trainings to 1000+ professionals from 20+ countries including 100+ CEOs, CTOs, VPs, and Directors etc. He has delivered professional trainings to a long list of satisfied customers such as NetSol, Systems, Techlogix, Confiz, NorthBay, SSI, tkxel, FiveRivers, RolusTech, & dozens more.
He has got various certifications related to Agile Project Management such as Project Management Professional (PMP), Agile Certified Practitioner (ACP), Certified Scrum Master (CSM), and Advanced Certified Scrum Product Owner (A-CSPO).
AutoCAD: Basic to Pro
Duration
8 to 10 weeks
Introduction to Course
AutoCAD is an emerging field that combines creativity with technical skills. This course will help a trainee to acquire basic introduction of Computer Aided Design (CAD). This course will help you to learn this software step by step from beginner to professional level. The goal is to develop planning and designing skills starting with the fundamental theory and practice of AutoCAD and quickly advancing to draw basic drawing sets.
This course puts you on the track of accomplishment by providing complete instructions on how to start your AutoCAD career as a freelancer and get the best AutoCAD jobs. The trainees can make a career in architectural & engineering design through this course.
Course Outline
Module 1: Introduction of AutoCAD
Exploring the Interface: Ribbon, Panels, Model space, Layout tabs, Status bar, & Properties.
Picking Points in the Drawing Area
Opening an Existing File
Saving a File as You Work
Working with Multiple Files
Understand AutoCAD setup tips, Options, Units, Workspace
Understand basic drawing tools
Module 2: Use of Commands
Understand Layers – Name, Line type, Thickness, & Color
Draw centre lines – Object snap, Line, Move, & Offest
Draw exterior/interior walls, floor, millwork & openings – Polyline, Spline, Circle, Rectangle, Object Snap, Mirror, Fillet, Trim, Extend, Array, & Match Properties
Assignment: Using different commands draw any Object to explore your creativity.
Module 3:  Master Intermediate Skills
Dim, & Dimension style
Add/Edit blocks from AutoCAD Tool Palette & Other sources – Door, Window, Column, Plumbing, Furniture & Equipment
Create custom blocks – Custom furniture
Assignment: Make Sofa set furniture block
Module 4:  Concept of Architecture drawings 
Type of Drawings: Brief Introduction
Examples of different live projects
How to draw a plan from basic information?
Assignment: Search different types of drawings produced in AutoCAD and present in front class.
Module 5:  Draw an elevation and section from the floor plan
Add/Edit Text & Annotation (in model space-annotative) – M Text, Text Style, M leader, and Multileader Style
Using of blocks and furniture in drawings.
Use of Hatch
All details use in Architectural drawing set
Assignment: Draw a 2D Plan.
Module 6:  Set Sheets 
Understand Model space and Paper space
Set a new layout – Page layout and plot styles
Set views in Paper space – Defpoints, scaling
Add/Edit/Draw a title block
Add/Edit symbols in Paper spaces – drawing title, elevation symbol and section letters, north arrow
Printing
Assignment: Draw a Basic Elevation. 
Module 7:   Introduction of Submission Drawing 
Review of submission drawing
Examples of submission drawing
Assignment: Final Project
Module 8:   3D Modeling and Imaging
Creating 3D Drawings
Using Advanced 3D Features
Editing and Visualizing 3D Solid
Instructor Name:
Rabia Muhammad Mansha 
Instructor Profile:
Rabia Muhammad Mansha is an Architectural Engineer. She has Six years of industrial experience in the construction, building design, management and architecture field. She also has three years of teaching experience as a Lecturer at COMSATS University of Information & Technology, Lahore. Currently she is working as Project Engineer in a UK based multinational Architectural Firm.
She has done BSc Architectural Engineering from University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore and Masters of Architecture from University of the Punjab in Architectural Design.
Intelligence Augmentation Through Generative AI and ChatGPTIntelligence Augmentation Through Generative AI and ChatGPT: Hands-On Workshop for Students and ResearchersAugust 7 to August 10, 2023 (Revised dates)Hybrid: ITU, Lahore, and Online
Roughly 20 hours of instruction and hands-on exercises.
To participate in the course:
Before the cutoff date 27th July 2023, register at: http://itu.edu.pk/application/web/site/signup
and pay the fee (10,000 PKR general; 5,000 PKR ITU student/staff; payable through ITU portal).
Course Detail:
️
️Day 1: Introduction to Generative AI and ChatGPT
Theory, Types, and Exciting Applications!
️ Day 2: Crafting Powerful Prompts with ChatGPT 
Prompt Engineering for ChatGPT. Prompt Recipes for Research. Crafting Effective Questions.
️ Day 3: AI-Augmented Writing Workshop for Researchers! ✍️
Discover How to Leverage Generative AI and ChatGPT in Your Research!
️ Day 4: Effective Use of ChatGPT. Critical Evaluation. Ethics of Generative AI 
Master Effective Use, Critical Evaluation, and Ethical Considerations! ✨
Instructor Profile:
Dr. Junaid Qadir 
Introduction to Computer Networks
MS Office & Office 365 Training
MS office with office 365
Overview 
Microsoft Office 2016 and office 365 for PC is an innovative computer program that is highly recommended for people who are constantly on the go. Acquire essential skills for producing professional work with the Microsoft Office suite including Word, Excel, PowerPoint. This course bundle includes both basic and advanced features of Microsoft Word 2016, Excel 2016, PowerPoint 2016.
The Microsoft Office Specialist Certification is renowned globally and this training course bundle can help you gain this recognisable and valuable certification online. If you want to demonstrate to an employer that you have top-level Microsoft Office skills, this Microsoft Office 2016 course will help set you apart from the rest.
Office 365
Office 365 focuses on accessibility to documents and communication, mobility, and team collaboration. This course will provide an overview of the apps available in Office 365. Learn the core features of Office 365, how they can simplify your workday and make your team more productive.
Introduction to Office 365
What is Office 365
Ways to access Office 365 – online, desktop, mobile
Benefits of using Office 365
Navigate Office 365
Customize Office 365 start page
Search for apps, documents, people, team sites
Overview of the apps
Easily access documents
Navigate with the start menu
Work with your documents with OneDrive for Business
Store personal documents with access anytime, anywhere, any device
Search for documents
See documents shared with you
Recover deleted documents
See your team documents
Create new documents, or upload existing documents
Manage sharing and permissions of documents yourself
Work online, or in the desktop
Collaborate and co-author documents in real-time
Access your documents without an internet connection
MS Word: 
Create a document
Create a blank document, create a blank document using a template, open a PDF in Word for editing, insert text from a file or external source
Navigate through a document
Search for text, insert hyperlinks, create bookmarks, move to a specific location or object in a document
Format a document
Modify page setup, apply document themes, apply document style sets, insert headers and footers, insert page numbers, format page background elements
Customize options and views for documents
Change document views, customize views by using zoom settings, customize the Quick Access Toolbar, split the window, add document properties, show or hide formatting symbols
Print and save documents
Modify print settings, save documents in alternative file formats, print all or part of a document, inspect a document for hidden properties or personal information, inspect a document for accessibility issues, inspect a document for compatibility issues
Insert text and paragraphs
Find and replace text; cut, copy, and paste text; replace text by using AutoCorrect; insert special characters
Format text and paragraphs
Apply font formatting, apply formatting by using Format Painter, set line and paragraph spacing and indentation, clear formatting, apply a text highlight color to text selections, apply built-in styles to text, change text to WordArt
Order and group text and paragraphs
Format text in multiple columns; insert page, section, or column breaks; change page setup options for a section
Create a table
Convert text to tables, convert tables to text, create a table by specifying rows and columns, apply table styles
Modify a table
Sort table data; configure cell margins and spacing; merge and split cells; resize tables, rows, and columns; split tables; configure a repeating row header
Create and modify a list
Create a numbered or bulleted list, change bullet characters or number formats for a list level, define a custom bullet character or number format, increase or decrease list levels, restart or continue list numbering, set starting number value
Create and manage reference markers
Insert footnotes and endnotes, modify footnote and endnote properties, create bibliography citation sources, modify bibliography citation sources, insert citations for bibliographies, insert figure and table captions, modify caption properties
Create and manage simple references 
Insert a standard table of contents, update a table of contents, insert a cover page
Insert graphic elements 
Insert shapes, insert pictures, insert a screen shot or screen clipping, insert text boxes
Format graphic elements
Apply artistic effects, apply picture effects, remove picture backgrounds, format objects, apply a picture style, wrap text around objects, position objects, add alternative text to objects for accessibility
Insert and format SmartArt graphics
Create a SmartArt graphic, format a SmartArt graphic, modify SmartArt graphic content
MS Excel: 
Create worksheets and workbooks
Create a workbook, import data from a delimited text file, add a worksheet to an existing workbook, copy and move a worksheet
Navigate in worksheets and workbooks
Search for data within a workbook; navigate to a named cell, range, or workbook element; insert and remove hyperlinks
Format worksheets and workbooks
Change worksheet tab color, rename a worksheet, change worksheet order, modify page setup, insert and delete columns or rows, change workbook themes, adjust row height and column width, insert headers and footers
Customize options and views for worksheets and workbooks
Hide or unhide worksheets, hide or unhide columns and rows, customize the Quick Access Toolbar, change workbook views, change window views, modify document properties, change magnification by using zoom tools, display formulas
Configure worksheets and workbooks for distribution
Set a print area, save workbooks in alternative file formats, print all or part of a workbook, set print scaling, display repeating row and column titles on multipage worksheets, inspect a workbook for hidden properties or personal information, inspect a workbook for accessibility issues, inspect a workbook for compatibility issues
Insert data in cells and ranges
Replace data; cut, copy, or paste data; paste data by using special paste options; fill cells by using Auto Fill; insert and delete cells
Format cells and ranges
Merge cells, modify cell alignment and indentation, format cells by using Format Painter, wrap text within cells, apply number formats, apply cell formats, apply cell styles
Summarize and organize data 
Insert sparklines, outline data, insert subtotals, apply conditional formatting
Create and manage tables
Create an Excel table from a cell range, convert a table to a cell range, add or remove table rows and columns
Manage table styles and options 
Apply styles to tables, configure table style options, insert total rows
Filter and sort a table 
Filter records, sort data by multiple columns, change sort order, remove duplicate records
Summarize data by using functions
Insert references, perform calculations by using the SUM function, perform calculations by using MIN and MAX functions, perform calculations by using the COUNT function, perform calculations by using the AVERAGE function
Perform conditional operations by using functions
Perform logical operations by using the IF function, perform logical operations by using the SUMIF function, perform logical operations by using the AVERAGEIF function, perform statistical operations by using the COUNTIF function
Format and modify text by using functions
Format text by using RIGHT, LEFT, and MID functions; format text by using UPPER, LOWER, and PROPER functions; format text by using the CONCATENATE function
Create charts
Create a new chart, add additional data series, switch between rows and columns in source data, analyze data by using Quick Analysis
Format graphic elements
Resize charts, add and modify chart elements, apply chart layouts and styles, move charts to a chart sheet
Insert and format objects
Insert text boxes and shapes, insert images, modify object properties, add alternative text to objects for accessibility
MS PowerPoint:
Create a presentation 
Create a new presentation, create a presentation based on a template, import Word document outlines
Insert and format slides 
Insert specific slide layouts; duplicate existing slides; hide and unhide slides; delete slides; apply a different slide layout; modify individual slide backgrounds; insert slide headers, footers, and page numbers
Modify slides, handouts, and notes 
Change the slide master theme or background, modify slide master content, create a slide layout, modify a slide layout, modify the handout master, modify the notes master
Order and group slides 
Create sections, modify slide order, rename sections
Change presentation options and views 
Change slide size, change views of a presentation, set file properties
Configure a presentation for print 
Print all or part of a presentation; print notes pages; print handouts; print in color, grayscale, or black and white
Configure and present a slide show 
Create custom slide shows, configure slide show options, rehearse slide show timing, present a slide show by using Presenter View
Insert and format text 
Insert text on a slide, apply formatting and styles to text, apply WordArt styles to text, format text in multiple columns, create bulleted and numbered lists, insert hyperlinks
Insert and format shapes and text boxes 
Insert or replace shapes, insert text boxes, resize shapes and text boxes, format shapes and text boxes, apply styles to shapes and text boxes
Insert and format images 
Insert images, resize and crop images, apply styles and effects
Order and group objects 
Order objects, align objects, group objects, display alignment tools
Insert and format tables 
Create a table, insert and delete table rows and columns, apply table styles, import a table
Insert and format charts 
Create a chart, import a chart, change the Chart Type, add a legend to a chart, change the chart style of a chart
Insert and format SmartArt graphics 
Create SmartArt graphics, convert lists to SmartArt graphics, add shapes to SmartArt graphics, reorder shapes in SmartArt graphics, change the color of SmartArt graphics
Insert and manage media 
Insert audio and video clips, configure media playback options, adjust media window size, set the video start and stop time, set media timing options
Apply slide transitions 
Insert slide transitions, set transition effect options
Animate slide content 
Apply animations to objects, apply animations to text, set animation effect options, set animation paths
Set timing for transitions and animations 
Set transition effect duration, configure transition start and finish options, reorder animations on a slide
Merge content from multiple presentations 
Insert slides from another presentation, compare two presentations, insert comments, review comments Finalize presentations 
Protect a presentation, inspect a presentation, proof a presentation, preserve presentation content, export presentations to other formats
Prerequisites
Basic computer skills are required. No prior Office 365 experience is necessary.
Blogging
Course Outline
Why you should blog?
The role of blogs in digital marketing
Blogging goals
Building blog from scratch and take the existing blog to the next level
Familiarization of the most effective type of content
How to create effective content
Understand the importance of effective writing and how to become a better writer
SEO Basics
How to pitch to marketers/publicists for sponsored collaborations
Build a profitable business around your content and turn your blog into a revenue generating asset.
Game Development And Modeling(Unity)
Details
The course will help you learn game development for mobile and PC platforms. The course is a hands-on program with actual development of a few games like a first-person shooter, running game, racing game, 2d games and more. We will be using Unity 3D as our main tool while we will be touching a few other tools like Photoshop for textures, Make Human, Maya and a few other tools for 3D models, humanoids and rigging and we will look into a few resources on web from where we can get free and paid assets.
Course Outline:
Session 1
Introduction to game development, game loop, life cycle, development process, tools and techniques needed, software installation and basic components of a game.
Session 2
Building your first 3D scene, what is 2D and 3D game perspective, sprites, game objects, animations and their use in Unity
Session 3
Game object transformations, translation, rotation, scaling in game scenes. Objects, colliders, rigid bodies, gravity and game physics. Position, velocity, speed, acceleration and momentum. Physics material and rendering material
Session 4
Particle systems, environments, trees, terrains, building your first full game. An aircraft game with enemies. Setting your first light and camera.
Session 5
Handling camera for racing game, flying game, 2d games, running games, bird eye view game, 3rd person game, first person game etc. Adding water, smoke, mountains, trees and other objects on terrain
Session 6
A talk about textures and normal maps. Lights, shaders and making scenes that work best on different platforms. Running a same scene on PC, mobile and web. Where to get your assets – Asset store, websites vs make your own, what is better.
Session 7
Introduction to 3d models, humanoids and other objects. What are humanoids and what is rigging. Creating your own humanoid characters simple and easy with a free tool, rigging them.
Session 8
Using animated humanoids in game, making our FPS game with AI enemies, adding weapons, firing and killing enemies. Creating multi scene game.
Session 9
Making a 2D game for a change. Understanding game market, and importance of 2D games. How to optimize your game for low end platforms and mobiles.
Session 10
How to publish your game on play store. A summary of publishing your game on iTunes store will be shared too. How to monetize your game, free vs paid games, adding ads to your games using Admob.
Mobile App development (IOS)
Details
Objectives:
This short course will strive to train the candidates with core iOS development concepts and give them hands-on development experience in the most essential features set used currently. Moreover, we’ll touch upon some basic freelancing and professional attitude flaws that should be avoided and some traits that help in professional life.
Pre-Requisites:
Basic programing knowledge.
Programing Languages and Algorithms.
System and Tools Required
Macbook/Hackentosh/VM with MacOS
Xcode
**If you don’t have above mentioned tools let us know we’ll arrange a WorkStation for you. You can practice and work on it using TeamViewer
Course Outline:
#
Topics to be covered in the course
1
Introduction to Mobile Programming
Class Logistics, Overview of iOS,
Objective C Intro, Swift Intro
Xcode and simulator Demo
Feature set we’ll learn during the course
2
Foundation
Interface builder
Basic type of Application navigation
Tab-Based Application
Master-Details Application
Application Life Cycle
Reading Assignment 1
3
Different Controls that make an Application
Image View, Web View, ScrollView Table View
Camera
Keyboard
Core Data
Reading Assignment 2 Developing
4
iOS application Basics
Starting a project
Basic Project Skeleton
Programming Essentials
Fundamental Design Patterns used
Hello World Demo with basic controls
Labels, Text Fields and Buttons
Programming Assignment 1
5
Developing iOS application part 1
Address book based application
Exploring address-book framework
Developing basic features of Address Book
Programming Assignment 2
6
Developing iOS application part 3
Exploring CoreImage Frame Work
Camera and Photo Library
Core Image effects and filters.
Manipulating images and Saving.
Programming assignment 4
7
Developing iOS application part 4
Further Exploring Image Manipulation
Animation and transitions
Gestures Demo with image scaling translation and Rotation
Basic Audio and video Features
Programming assignment 5
8
Developing iOS application part 2
Exploring Social Frameworks
Login Using Social platforms
Social share
Programming assignment 3
9
Developing iOS application part 5
Exploring Core Location and Mapkit
Core Location Basics
Getting the current location
Placing a pin on Map
Customizing the pin
Mocking location on simulator if you don’t have device
Live Location updating on map
Programming assignment 6
10
Advance Programming features
Push Notification
In App Purchases
API Calling and response handling
11
Application Deployment and Sharing
Debugging and Crashlytics
Provisioning Profile creation.
Application signing and upload to Appstore
12
Professional Do’s and Dont’s
Freelancing rules and basics
How to handle your first Interview
Q&A Session
Instructor Profile:
Ms. Sana Ahmad’s professional career started in 2009 during her final quarter of MS in LUMS, it was her first dive into iOS development as well. She has 11 years of professional experience which started as a software engineer at Tkxel. In a year She was the Team Lead managing her own projects as well as training junior and mid-level resources. She served this role for around 3.5 years and then embarked into the realm of entrepreneurship, by starting her first software startup RêveApps. This experience brought new challenges her way including establishing herself as a freelancer and leading a team. The core idea behind RêveApps was to work with start-ups and established brands, mostly from the US, as their development team, assist them in launching their mobile/web idea, furthermore help them to achieve their funding and seeding capital goals. She is also a founding member and CTO for another start-up LiveWire, a custom solution provider for software development and staff augmentation across the entire product development. During her period as an entrepreneur, She worked with international and local clients including MixCord, NatGeo, Moga-PowerA, getPikkUp, Favly, QuranIQ, Jazz, Ufone, and Jubilee. She has also worked with a team of 40+ developers, managed and trained them as IT professionals.Now here she is with yet a new endeavor professional teaching, intending to bridge the gap between the fundamental training and professional requirements.
2D Animation from Sketch to Sprite
2D Animation from Sketch to SpriteLearn how to design and animate a character in Photoshop! Join aspiring students and professionals, and begin designing game characters and animation.Looking to creating professional game graphics or maybe you want to learn a new skill to add to your portfolio, you will make the right choice in selecting this course.The 2D Animation from Sketch to Sprite Course will should you how to create high quality, stylized characters and animations for both production and games. The techniques taught in this course can be translated into just about any asset creation.The course is divided into 6 modules:
Photoshop basics
Understanding the layout
Exploring tools
Creating and editing type
Using various selection and masking techniques
The design process
Understanding the process of designing a character for animation
Understanding colour and how to use it effectively
Building character assets
Using Photoshop to create game assets/character
Exploring time saving tools and tops for efficient workflow
Sprite sheet creation
Building animation sprite sheets
Using Photoshop to create animations
Animation cycles
Understanding keyframes and timelines in Photoshop
Using layers, keyframes and the timeline to animate
Presenting your work and finding work
Understanding the value of presentation
Exploring freelancing opportunities
Game Development (Unity)
Game Development
Course Outline
The purpose of the course is to teach students about the overall process of game development. Computer games can be played today on a number of platforms. The course will equip students with the latest techniques using Unity and accompanying tools to develop quality games for PC, Mobile and Console platform.
The summarized course outline will look like below:
Week
Topic
1
Introduction to the game development life-cycle, the game loop, a brief history of how games have been developed. Basic components of a game
Sprites, animations, coordinate systems and handling input for 2D games. Introduction to Unity. Introduction to game physics
2
Introduction to 3D game systems and coordinates. Objects and their transformations that is rotation, scaling, translation and combinations. 3D and 2D vectors and their use. Scenes and cameras, perspective and different type of games with respect to angles. Running games, birds eye view games, racing games and more.
3
Object Collusion, Environments and Drawing the world, Particle Systems. Developing first full game, making the game run on PC and mobile phones.
4
Handling lights, particle systems, fire, smoke, water and more. Using Terrains, mountains and landscapes, placing objects like trees, stones and texturing them to create custom worlds.
5
Acquiring assets from online sources, websites, unity store and more. Importing such assets into the unity project and making a sample game.
6
Introduction to game physics, velocity, acceleration, collusion, momentum and how Unity handles it, how can we use game engines to make stunning effects in games. Materials, bounciness, elasticity, chains, ropes and hinges etc.
7
Game optimization and making sure it runs on the target platform. Ways to improve game efficiency without sacrificing a lot of quality.
8
Publishing games on different stores. Monetization models for games.  Using advertisements, in app purchases and more
9
Building humanoids for 3d games, 2 legged character design, texturing, optimization and rigging.
10
Creating animations and using the humanoids in 3D/ 2D games
Tax Filing
Introduction
With more and more emphasis being put by the government on tax return filing, it is imperative for each one of us to understand the basics of how our income tax is calculated and what is our legal obligation with regards to income tax payment and income tax return filing. We should also be aware of risks of not filing our tax return or paying taxes. In addition, it is always good to know what various tax concessions and rebates are available to us to help us reduce our tax bill.
In this course, you will learn how to
Calculate your income tax
File your tax return online, and Reduce your income tax by using tax concessions, credits, and rebates
Brief Contents
What is income tax and what are the filing obligations
How to calculate income tax for salaried people
Income tax rebates and credits
How to use form IT-3 to adjust advance tax paid
How to register for online tax return filing
How to file income tax return electronically
How to file wealth statement electronically
What will not be covered
Income tax for business persons
Property tax
Tax on investment income
Capital gains tax
Stamp duty and other taxes on real estate
Corporate tax
GST, Custom duty, and Excise duty etc
Instructor Profile:
Mr. Shahrukh Irfan is a Chartered Accountant and a Chartered Tax Advisor from the UK and holds MSc in accounting and finance from the London School of Economics (LSE). He has worked in Big 4 accounting firms in the UK for almost 7 years in income tax practice. He is currently teaching and consulting on personal tax in Pakistan.
Building your legacy while Making money
Course Details
This is a course designed to give you a source of passive income so that you achieve financial freedom and focus on bigger things that you are born to do. The course has absolutely no prerequisite making it an ideal choice for professionals and students alike. This course starts with creating an entrepreneurial mindset before introducing ways to make money online while studying or working full time. After showing multiple ways to earn a passive income, It will dig deeper into drop-shipping and take you step by step through the entire journey of setting up an e-commerce store, finding a niche, product suppliers, branding and marketing. At the end of this course, you all will be fully equipped to run a passive income business. The course then moves on to finding your passion and what you really want to do in life. It teaches you several methods of finding a startup idea and tips to pursue it further. The course is a fusion of lectures, case-studies, exercises and hands on training.
Instructor Profile:
Hafee Atyub is an entrepreneur, innovation consultant & divergent thinker, who graduated from LUMS and went to Germany on DAAD funded research internship. Later, he founded BagAdverts which got incubated at Plan9 and eventually won CAREEM as his first customer. He was also selected among top 20 out of 500+ applicants for Kazan OIC Youth Entrepreneurship forum held in Russia. He also presented at Idea Cororon Ka TV show. He believes that human beings are the best of the creations and entrepreneurship is their innate nature.
￩
￫
x
×
                            Previous
                            Next
students
news
Grading Policy
Forms & Documents
Library Resources
Programs Offered
Campus Life
admissions
Trainings & Short Courses
BS Economics with Data Science
BS Management & Technology
BS Computer Engineering
BS Electrical Engineering
BS Computer Science
BS Software Engineering 
BS Artificial Intelligence 
Executive MBA (EMBA)
MS Development Studies
MS Public Policy and Society
MS Management and Technology
MS Data Science
MS Computer Science
MS Electrical Engineering
MS Computer Engineering
PhD Computer Science
PhD Electrical Engineering
Eligibility Criteria
Admission Test
Fee Structure
Scholarships
university
About
Jobs & Openings
Student Services & Placement Office (SSPO)
Research Centres
Faculty
Tenders
RTI
NEWSLETTER SUBSCRIPTION
Subscribe to keep yourself updated with the latest news & happenings
ITU Admissions Office
6th Floor, Arfa Software Technology Park, Ferozepur Road, Lahore
E   admission@itu.edu.pk
Admission Queries   042-99046061   |   0307-0111488
UAN     (042) - 111-111-ITU (488)
HOME
ABOUT
CAREERS
CONTACT
© 2024 Information Technology University of the Punjab
